Add FinalizationRegistry docs (Revert #22239) (#22295)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/changelog/workers/2025-05-08-finalization-registry.mdx

---

> title: Improved Memory Efficiency for WebAssembly Workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Improved memory efficiency for WebAssembly Workers
```

description: With the introduction of FinalizationRegistry in Workers Runtime, toolchains like Emscripten and wasm-bindgen can automatically reclaim unused WebAssembly heap and reduce memory leaks.
products:
  - workers
date: 2025-05-08T00:00:00Z
---

[FinalizationRegistry](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/FinalizationRegistry) is now available in Workers. You can opt-in using the [`enable_weak_ref`](/workers/configuration/compatibility-flags/#enable-finalizationregistry-and-weakref) compatibility flag.

This can reduce memory leaks when using WebAssembly-based Workers, which includes [Python Workers](/workers/languages/python/) and [Rust Workers](/workers/languages/rust/). The FinalizationRegistry works by enabling toolchains such as [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/) and [wasm-bindgen](https://rustwasm.github.io/wasm-bindgen/) to automatically free WebAssembly heap allocations. If you are using WASM and seeing Exceeded Memory errors and cannot determine a cause using [memory profiling](/workers/observability/dev-tools/memory-usage/), you may want to enable the FinalizationRegistry.

> For more information see the [`enable_weak_ref`](/workers/configuration/compatibility-flags/#enable-finalizationregistry-and-weakref) compatibility flag documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information refer to the [`enable_weak_ref`](/workers/configuration/compatibility-flags/#enable-finalizationregistry-and-weakref) compatibility flag documentation.
```
